---
layout: post
title: What You Should Know Before You Start
date: 2016-12-20
update: 2022-01-15
category: "README"
tags: [jekyll, material design]
author: Lambda,yuz
mathjax: true
comment: false
---

This is an example to post your article and something you need to pay attention to.


## Post's file name

The file name of your post must be prefixed with date. For unity, the date should be YYYY-MM-DD, E.g. `2016-12-20-readme.md`


## Post's YAML 

---

- `layout: post`
    : This should **NOT** be changed.
- `title`
    : The title of your article.
- `author`
    : E.g. `author: Lambda`, default is the site's author.
- `date`
    : E.g. `date: 2015-08-17` or `data: 2015-08-17 15:06:10`
- `categories`
    : No blanks, one post to one category. E.g. `categories: ["test"]`, `categories: ["test-this"]`, `categories: [CV, RISC-V]`.(`category` supports only one identifier while `categories` support one or more)
- `tags` (optional)
    : You can specify one or more tags. E.g. `tags: [jekyll, html]`.

---

- `mathjax` (optional)
    : mathjax is an open source web rendering tool of math formula, it support Latex grammar. you need enable mathjax: `mathjax: true`; otherwise mean disable.
- `update` (optional)
    : E.g. `update: 2015-05-02`
- `comment` (optional)
    : enable the comment function. E.g. `comment: true`
- `published` (optional)
    : true or false

---


## Post's Content

#### Include Liquid in markdown

- All legal markdown syntax may be allowed. 
- Liquid synatax also should be allowed.


So, if you want to avoid syntax conflicts, you can use {% raw %}`{% raw %}`{% endraw %}

(More liquid syntax, see [Liquid-for-Designers](https://github.com/Shopify/liquid/wiki/Liquid-for-Designers))

#### Markdown

[kramdown](https://kramdown.gettalong.org/)


### Example

Some long sentence.[^footnote] Other long sentence.

[^footnote]: [Link](https://google.com).


## Structure of site project

In the root directory of the site project, you can see some files and folders. You can just care about `about.md`, `_ports` and `assets`.

- about.md
    :You can post your personal information through about.md
- \_ports
    :The folder to put your articles, as you see, this file is within it. Maybe it is a good way to create a sub-directory named your own name to include your articles.
- assets
    :The folder to store the picture referenced by your articles. See `ji tang lai le` in Example section.
    
if you want to help maintain the home page. You should know more about [jekyll](https://aiot-doge.github.io/posts/blog/jekyll/welcome-to-jekyll.html).


## Suggestions

In order to save space, some suggections ar as follows.  
- If you have your own blog, and the articles you want to post are too large, you can navigate to your home page.
- Uploard as few picture as possible.

## Warning
If you `git clone` the repo, and run locally, a folder named `site` will be generated. Please not `git add` it before push!  
